>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So component driven
architecture, we're going to really just
talk about component driven
architecture from a high level.
What that means.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The contract that
we establish, the inputs and outputs,
container components,
presentational components, and
then we'll dig into input and
output just a little bit more.
But first, story time.
You can't really talk about component
driven architecture without
at least talking about where we came from.
And so those who are new to Angular,
especially Angular 2,
this may come as a surprise, but
things weren't always this awesome.
In fact, when we started Angular, this is
in like the 0.9 version, when I started.
That my first experience
with Angular 2 and
it blew everybody's mind, neatest
circus trick ever was interpolation.
Basically two-way data binding and
you could hook up with curly brackets,
and you simply had to set a property.
So technically it's not
two-way data binding, but
it's really string interpolation.
You set a property on your JavaScript and
ta-da, it renders in your HTML.
At the point, or at that point in time,
that was actually really hard to do.
And two-way data binding showed up,
I had been doing flex for quite some time.
And the concept of a view and a controller
really struck me as kind of a view model.
It really resonated with me and so
I started out and I built a tiny app
with a tiny view in a tiny controller.
In fact, if you go to the angularjs.org
museum of natural history
and you look at some of their displays,
these are exactly the kind of apps
that are on the angularjs.org website,
very simple, single page,
in the case of this.
I realize they're examples, but these are
the kind of apps that we started writing,
like, I didn't do two a day to mind
you with Ang model and curly braces.
Half my work is done.
Amazing.
And then you move into to do apps, etc.
Well anyways, I was hooked.
From there, I wanted to actually do things
and so the application grew, but because
of that when my functionality grew,
so did my view, so did my controller.
Well then the next logical step is,
I would like to do this for
money, with people.
And so this is when reality hits.
You need to produce something that's not
trivial, and your view just keeps growing.
Your controller keeps growing.
And things become unmanageable.
And it gets to the point where
you have a 1200-line controller.
And you're now negotiating who can
work on what part of the controller.
And this has happened, like okay.
I'm working on up to line 200,
don't touch anything.
And anything after that you can work on.
Well, this is a real sad panda moment.
And so
this is actually within the first year.
People were running into
this problem in a big way.
Is that angular taught you where to
put your pieces in the application,
or essentially kind of your functionality,
but they didn't really tell you, or didn't
really have a strong opinion at the time,
of how to actually compose them together.
But out of that pain,
two main approaches emerged.
And they both, very viable,
the first one is to
break your application
up using named routes.
So again, treating your
application as a state machine,
you would break your application up
into named routes using UI View.
And then you would break your template and
your controller up into smaller pieces,
and kind of put them
Into specific pieces via
essentially UI view or
the equivalent router outlet.
But notice you still have your component,
or
rather your template controller
pair in Angular one.
The next version of this
was using directives.
So people actually started to use their
directives to break up their applications.
So you'd for instance have a side bar
directive where your side bar went went,
content footer.
But you're still organizing this
into component and template pairs.
It's just again,
an organizational mechanism.
Well, because this is where
the web standards were going and
pretty much every other framework,
Angular 2 said using directives as
components, that this is a good idea.
Let's just make components the thing.
And so, structure.
We now have, essentially out of this,
a best practice around structure,
which we have been talking about and
learning about for
the entirety of this workshop but,
also this raises the question,
how do we handle communication
between components?
When we structure them, how do they talk,
how do they share information.
And so this is where component
driven architecture comes in.
So as we've components are small,
encapsulated pieces of software that we
can reuse and make different contexts,
so even to a point where
we had a review component, and we just
put it into our DOM via the selector.
And then we turned around and
we loaded it via a route.
Because that component is self contained,
we can have it in our DOM or
in our application in
two different places,
same component instantiating it more than
once in actually a totally different way.
So Angular 2, by default,
strongly encourages component
architecture by really making it, well,
not only easy but necessary, to build out
every feature in the app as a component.
And, more importantly, is that it allows
us to kind of encapsulate everything so
that one, it's predictable,
but it's portable.
And so when you are on a large
application, especially, so
as Angular kind of grows up
within kind of large teams, or
even small teams that need to share
functionality, or share functionality
between teams, you can now pick up
components, and move them, and share them.